." vim: set syn=nroff
.TH bytes 1 "May 2019" "bytes v1.5.0"

.SH NAME
bytes - calculate the disk space consumed by files within a directory.

.SH SYNOPSIS
bytes [-ahnrv]
      [-p \fI\,precision\fR]
      [-u \fI\,unit\fR]
      [\fI\,directory\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fI\,bytes\fR calculates the disk space consumed by files with a directory. \fI\,bytes\fR does not support IEC.

To calculate the total number of bytes consumed by all visible (i.e. non-dot) files within the current directory excluding subdirectories, simply enter

.RS
bytes
.RE

into your terminal.
You can also specify a different directory to calculate the file-size total for:

.RS
bytes \fI\,path/to/directory\fR
.RE

If you want to display the result in a different unit, e.g. kilobytes or megabytes, use the \fI\,-u\fR option to specify the desired unit.

If you want to include hidden files, i.e. dot-files, use the \fI\,-a\fR option.

If you want to include subdirectories, use the \fI\,-r\fR option.

See the \fI\,OPTIONS\fR section for a full list of available options.

.SH OPTIONS
-a, --all
.RS
include dot-files a.k.a. hidden files.
.RE

-h, --help
.RS
display usage information.
.RE

-n, --newline
.RS
do not print a trailing newline character.
.RE

-p \fI\,precision\fR, --precision \fI\,precision\fR
.RS
specify the desired floating point precision. Default: 3.
.RE

-r, --recursive
.RS
if set, \fI\,bytes\fR recursively traverses subdirectories.
.RE

-u \fI\,unit\fR, --unit \fI\,unit\fR
.RS
specify the unit in which to display disk space consumption. Supported units are:
.RS
.IP \fI\,b\fR .2i
bytes (default)
.IP \fI\,kb\fR
kilobytes (1024 bytes)
.IP \fI\,mb\fR
megabytes (1014 kilobytes)
.IP \fI\,gb\fR
gigabytes (1024 megabytes)
.IP \fI\,tb\fR
terabytes (1024 gigabytes)
.RE
.RE

-v, --version
.RS
display version information.
.RE

.SH ARGUMENTS
\fI\,directory\fR
.RS
specify the directory for which to calculate the consumed disk space. Defaults to the current directory.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <https://gihub.com/haensl/bytes/issues>

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Hans-Peter Dietz <h.p.dietz@gmail.com>

